README.md, before:

# AIEPhysicsEngine

This project is a basic rigid body physics engine. It was made for the "Physics For Games" unit at AIE Melbourne. It is built on top of **Line Renderer**, originally authored by Finn Morgan.

You can download Line Renderer on Finn's [website](https://dinaroozie.neocities.org/). The original project was made for use with Visual Studio, and is available in two flavours: GLFW or SDL.

If you don't use Visual Studio and can't be bothered setting up the CMake configuration yourself, I have a template repo [here](https://github.com/hamishmcd123/LineRendererCMake) using the SDL version. It probably doesn't follow CMake best practices, but it **works**.

The physics engine itself handles OBBs, circles and plane primitives with both linear and rotational collision resolution.

In preparation to make a custom engine for the end-of-year project, I also did a bunch of messing around with ImGUI, serialisation and reflection that don't really do too much.

## Limitations

- Since the project uses discrete collision detections, fast-moving objects are prone to tunnelling. 

- If the mass ratio between two objects is too high, the lighter object is likely to clip through planes.

- To simplify OBB collisions, the collision point is always chosen be the minimum vertex projected onto the separating axis (even for edge-to-edge collisions). As a result, long, thin OBBS will jitter like crazy when resting on surfaces.

- There is no broad-phase collision detection, so things will start to lag like crazy around ~200 physics bodies.

- My implementations for collisions are probably inefficient. Sorry.

## Other Thoughts
Although I probably won't end up using my own physics solution for my end-of-year project, I learnt a lot through making this. I would love to get better at game physics in the future.

If I *were* going to make this again, here are some thing I would like to add: 

- Generic polygon collision using SAT.
- Collision manifolds with OBB and other primitives.
- Contact forces.
- Basic constraints
- Joints

Commit message:

added gauss-seidel to solve for collisoins and friction

README.md, after:

# AIEPhysicsEngine

This project is a basic rigid body physics engine. It was made for the "Physics For Games" unit at AIE Melbourne. It is built on top of **Line Renderer**, originally authored by Finn Morgan.

You can download Line Renderer on Finn's [website](https://dinaroozie.neocities.org/). The original project was made for use with Visual Studio, and is available in two flavours: GLFW or SDL.

If you don't use Visual Studio and can't be bothered setting up the CMake configuration yourself, I have a template repo [here](https://github.com/hamishmcd123/LineRendererCMake) using the SDL version. It probably doesn't follow CMake best practices, but it **works**.

The physics engine itself handles OBBs, circles and plane primitives with both linear and rotational collision resolution. The resolution uses Gauss-Seidel to resolve the collision iteratively. Using Gauss-Seidel also allowed me to add basic friction.

In preparation to make a custom engine for the end-of-year project, I also did a bunch of messing around with ImGUI, serialisation and reflection that don't really do too much.

## Limitations

- Since the project uses discrete collision detections, fast-moving objects are prone to tunnelling. 

- If the mass ratio between two objects is too high, the lighter object is likely to clip through planes.

- To simplify OBB collisions, the collision point is always chosen be the minimum vertex projected onto the separating axis (even for edge-to-edge collisions). As a result, long, thin OBBS will jitter like crazy when resting on surfaces.

- There is no broad-phase collision detection, so things will start to lag like crazy around ~200 physics bodies.

- The collision resolution is not split-impulse. This means that deep penetrations cause the bias factor to add LOTS of energy.

- My implementations for collisions are probably inefficient. Sorry.

## Other Thoughts
Although I probably won't end up using my own physics solution for my end-of-year project, I learnt a lot through making this. I would love to get better at game physics in the future.

I also don't understand the math behind Gauss-Seidel and constraints as much as I would like to. I understand it to the extent that a Jacobian is used to represent how each degree of freedom violates the constraints,
and that there is some sort of lagrange multiplier stuff being used to solve for the impulse necessary within the constraint. I took multi-variable calculus while I was at uni, but this stuff is a whole different beast.

If I *were* going to make this again, here are some thing I would like to add: 

- Generic polygon collision using SAT.
- Collision manifolds with OBB and other primitives.
- Joints
